Update packaging guidelines cont (#14339)
dotnet/docs: docs/core/build/distribution-packaging.md

> When installed, .NET Core consists of several components that are laid out as follows in the filesystem:

Reviewer: can you also update ms.date (line 5) on this file?

- (15) **NETStandard.Library.Ref** describes the netstandard `x.y` API. These files are used when compiling for that target.

> - (16) **/etc/dotnet/install_location** is a file that contains the full path for `{dotnet_root}`. The path may be terminated with a newline. It's not necessary to add this file when the root is `/usr/share/dotnet`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- (16) **/etc/dotnet/install_location** is a file that contains the full path for `{dotnet_root}`. The path may end with a newline. It's not necessary to add this file when the root is `/usr/share/dotnet`.
```

- (17) **templates** contains the templates used by the SDK. For example, `dotnet new` finds project templates here.

> The folders marked with `(*)` are used by multiple packages. Some package formats (e.g. `rpm`) require special handling of such folders. The package maintainer must take care of this.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The folders marked with `(*)` are used by multiple packages. Some package formats (for example, `rpm`) require special handling of such folders. The package maintainer must take care of this.
```

  - **Version:** \<runtime version>
  - **Example:** dotnet-sdk-2.1
  - **Contains:** (3),(4)

>   - **Dependencies:** `dotnet-runtime-[major].[minor]`, `aspnetcore-runtime-[major].[minor]`, `dotnet-targeting-pack-[major].[minor]`, `aspnetcore-targeting-pack-[major].[minor]`, `netstandard-targeting-pack-[netstandard_major].[netstandard_minor]`, `dotnet-apphost-pack-[major].[minor]`, `dotnet-templates-[major].[minor]`

Reviewer 2: I'd be curious to learn whether it's generally good to rely on transitive dependencies or not. I don't have an objection, though.

Author: @omajid ?

Reviewer 3: I don't think it's an exact science. If it works, it works :smile: 

It seems to me like the SDK depends on `shared/Microsoft.NETCore.App` itself, so a dependency on the runtime package makes sense. But it doesn't need to be mandatory.

>   - **Provides shared directory:** `{dotnet_root}/sdk`, `{dotnet_root}/sdk/NuGetFallbackFolder`

Reviewer 2: Should we have a note<sup>maybe a `sup`</sup> about what this means for anyone reading the doc for a distro that doesn't do directory ownership? (Only Fedora-like distros mentioned in the earlier PR.)

Might also be useful to call out `dotnet_root`, in the file section it looks like `.` means the same thing. Or is it a true identifier, and changing where `dotnet-host` is installed changes the rest?

Author: > Only Fedora-like distros mentioned in the earlier PR.

@omajid is the concept of directory ownership rpm specitic? Do you know if it applies to deb?

> Might also be useful to call out dotnet_root, in the file section it looks like . means the same thing. Or is it a true identifier, and changing where dotnet-host is installed changes the rest?

I've addressed this by consistently using `{dotnet_root}`

- `aspnetcore-runtime-[major].[minor]` - Installs a specific ASP.NET Core runtime
  - **Version:** \<aspnetcore runtime version>
  - **Example:** aspnetcore-runtime-2.1
  - **Contains:** (6)
  - **Dependencies:** `dotnet-runtime-[major].[minor]`

>   - **Provides shared directory:** `{dotnet_root}/shared/Microsoft.AspNetCore.App`, `{dotnet_root}/shared/Microsoft.AspNetCore.All`

Reviewer 4: I may be misunderstanding something At the bottom of this doc you mention the following, which seems to contradict the "Provides" section of `aspnetcore-runtime-[major].[minor]`.

> - The third-party libraries under `shared/Microsoft.AspNetCore.All` can't be easily built from source. So that folder is omitted from the `aspnetcore-runtime` package.

Author: I need to clarify in the doc what _Provides shared directory_ means. It's about the folder itself, and not the content under it. _Contains_ is about the content.

All folders listed as _Provides shared directory_ are folders which may be used by different packages. For example, aspnetcore-runtime-2.1 and aspnetcore-runtime-2.2 may both create the `{dotnet_root}/shared/Microsoft.AspNetCore.App` under which they place their own versioned folder.

  - **Version:** \<runtime version>
  - **Example:** dotnet-sdk-2.1
  - **Contains:** (3),(4)

>   - **Dependencies:** `dotnet-runtime-[major].[minor]`, `aspnetcore-runtime-[major].[minor]`, `dotnet-targeting-pack-[major].[minor]`, `aspnetcore-targeting-pack-[major].[minor]`, `netstandard-targeting-pack-[netstandard_major].[netstandard_minor]`, `dotnet-apphost-pack-[major].[minor]`, `dotnet-templates-[major].[minor]`

Reviewer 3: I just noticed that this line says `netstandard-targeting-pack-[netstandard_major].[netstandard_minor]` but the list of packages below says `netstandard-targeting-pack-[major].[minor]`. That seems like a mismatch. It should be the netstandard version in both cases, right?

Author: I made it explicit here to make clear this is not matching the `[major].[minor]` of the package. I'll use it everywhere so it's less confusing.

- `dotnet-targeting-pack-[major].[minor]` - Allows targeting a non-latest runtime
  - **Version:** \<runtime version>
  - **Contains:** (12)
  - **Dependencies:** `dotnet-host` (provides `{dotnet_root}`)
  - **Provides shared directory:** `{dotnet_root}/packs`, `{dotnet_root}/packs/Microsoft.NETCore.App.Ref`

- `aspnetcore-targeting-pack-[major].[minor]` - Allows targeting a non-latest runtime
  - **Version:** \<aspnetcore runtime version>
  - **Contains:** (11)
  - **Dependencies:** `dotnet-host` (provides `{dotnet_root}`)
  - **Provides shared directory:** `{dotnet_root}/packs`, `{dotnet_root}/packs/Microsoft.AspNetCore.App.Ref`

- `netstandard-targeting-pack-[major].[minor]` - Allows targeting a netstandard version
  - **Version:** \<sdk version>
  - **Contains:** (15)
  - **Dependencies:** `dotnet-host` (provides `{dotnet_root}`)
  - **Provides shared directory:** `{dotnet_root}/packs`, `{dotnet_root}/packs/NETStandard.Library.Ref`

- `dotnet-templates-[major].[minor]`
  - **Version:** \<sdk version>
  - **Contains:** (15)
  - **Dependencies:** `dotnet-host` (provides `{dotnet_root}`)

>   - **Provides shared directory:** `{dotnet_root}/templates`

Author: I don't have a strong preference, but as an alternative to the 

> **Dependencies:** `dotnet-host` (provides `{dotnet_root}`)

We could add `{dotnet_root}` to the **Provides shared directory:**.

@omajid @dagood do you have some thoughts about this?

Reviewer 3: My 2 cents: Maybe this is too much detail? I am not sure if something like "provides shared directory" needs to be completely specified.

Reviewer 3: I would leave it out, given that it doesn't apply to all packaging systems.

Packagers are free to deviate from this doc when it makes sense, right?

> The `dotnet-runtime-deps-[major].[minor]` requires understanding the _distro specific dependencies_. Because the distro build system may be able to derive this automatically, the package is optional, in which case these dependencies are added directly to the `dotnet-runtime-[major].[minor]` package.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `dotnet-runtime-deps-[major].[minor]` requires understanding the _distro-specific dependencies_. Because the distro build system may be able to derive this automatically, the package is optional, in which case these dependencies are added directly to the `dotnet-runtime-[major].[minor]` package.
```

When package content is under a versioned folder, the package name `[major].[minor]` match the versioned folder name. For all packages, except the `netstandard-targeting-pack-[netstandard_major].[netstandard_minor]`, this also matches with the .NET Core version.

> Dependencies between packages should use a _equal or greater than_ version requirement. For example, `dotnet-sdk-2.2:2.2.401` requires `aspnetcore-runtime-2.2 >= 2.2.6`. This makes it possible for the user to upgrade their installation via a root package (e.g. `dnf update dotnet-sdk-2.2`).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Dependencies between packages should use an _equal or greater than_ version requirement. For example, `dotnet-sdk-2.2:2.2.401` requires `aspnetcore-runtime-2.2 >= 2.2.6`. This makes it possible for the user to upgrade their installation via a root package (for example, `dnf update dotnet-sdk-2.2`).
```

Multiple `dotnet-sdk` packages may provide the same files for the `NuGetFallbackFolder`. To avoid issues with the package manager, these files should be identical (checksum, modification date, and so on).

> The folders marked with `(*)` are used by multiple packages. Some package formats (e.g. `rpm`) require special handling of such folders. The package maintainer must take care of this.

Reviewer 2: It would be nice to have this described somewhere... but this note LGTM--hard to make it clear to readers not already familiar with this requirement without putting a lot more info in this doc and probably cluttering it up. Selfishly, I'd like to get the Microsoft RPMs up to snuff, and know what the consequences are of getting it wrong.

Author: Yes, we can assume that the package maintainer knows what this is about.

> The folders marked with `(*)` are used by multiple packages. Some package formats (e.g. `rpm`) require special handling of such folders. The package maintainer must take care of this.

Author: moving this up
